# What is Props

Props stand for "Properties."
By Default They are **read-only** components
It is an object which stores the value of attributes of a tag and work similar to the HTML attributes

# Why we use Props instead

it gives a way to pass data from one component to other components. It is similar to function arguments. Props are passed to the component in the same way as arguments passed in a function.

Props are immutable so we cannot modify the props from inside the component

inside the components, we can add attributes called props. These attributes are available in the component as this.props and can be used to render dynamic data in our render method.

# type of Props?

props are two types

1.Single Props

2.Multiple Props

# Values of props?

String literals:

Template literals with variables:

Number literals:

Boolean literals:

Plain object literals:

Array literals:

JSX:

Variables having any kind of value:

<table>
<tbody><tr>
<th>SN</th>
<th>PropsType</th>
<th>Description</th>
</tr>
<tr>
<td><strong>1.</strong></td>
<td>PropTypes.any</td>
<td>The props can be of any data type.</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td><strong>2.</strong></td>
<td>PropTypes.array</td>
<td>The props should be an array.</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td><strong>3.</strong></td>
<td>PropTypes.bool</td>
<td>The props should be a boolean.</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td><strong>4.</strong></td>
<td>PropTypes.func</td>
<td>The props should be a function.</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td><strong>5.</strong></td>
<td>PropTypes.number</td>
<td>The props should be a number.</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td><strong>6.</strong></td>
<td>PropTypes.object</td>
<td>The props should be an object.</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td><strong>7.</strong></td>
<td>PropTypes.string</td>
<td>The props should be a string.</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td><strong>8.</strong></td>
<td>PropTypes.symbol</td>
<td>The props should be a symbol.</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td><strong>9.</strong></td>
<td>PropTypes.instanceOf</td>
<td>The props should be an instance of a particular JavaScript class.</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td><strong>10.</strong></td>
<td>PropTypes.isRequired</td>
<td>The props must be provided.</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td><strong>11.</strong></td>
<td>PropTypes.element</td>
<td>The props must be an element.</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td><strong>12.</strong></td>
<td>PropTypes.node</td>
<td>The props can render anything: numbers, strings, elements or an array (or fragment) containing these types.</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td><strong>13.</strong></td>
<td>PropTypes.oneOf()</td>
<td>The props should be one of several types of specific values.</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td><strong>14.</strong></td>
<td>PropTypes.oneOfType([PropTypes.string,PropTypes.number])</td>
<td>The props should be an object that could be one of many types.</td>
</tr>
</tbody></table>


